.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/Xserver/hw/xfree86/drivers/i810/i810.man,v 1.5 2003/10/18 02:27:07 dawes Exp $ 
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH I810 __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
i810 \- Intel 8xx integrated graphics chipsets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qi810\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B i810
is an __xservername__ driver for Intel integrated graphics chipsets.
The driver supports depths 8, 15, 16 and 24.  All visual types are
supported in depth 8.  For the i810/i815 other depths support the
TrueColor and DirectColor visuals.  For the i830M and later, only the
TrueColor visual is supported for depths greater than 8.  The driver
supports hardware accelerated 3D via the Direct Rendering Infrastructure
(DRI), but only in depth 16 for the i810/i815 and depths 16 and 24 for
the 830M and later.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
.B i810
supports the i810, i810-DC100, i810e, i815, i830M, 845G, 852GM, 855GM,
865G, 915G, 915GM, 945G, 945GM, 965G, 965Q and 946GZ chipsets.

.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.
.PP
The Intel 8xx and 9xx families of integrated graphics chipsets has a unified
memory architecture and uses system memory for video ram.  For the i810 and
i815 family of chipset, operating system support for allocating system
memory for video use is required in order to use this driver.  For the 830M
and later, this is required in order for the driver to use more video ram
than has been pre-allocated at boot time by the BIOS.  This is usually
achieved with an "agpgart" or "agp" kernel driver.  Linux, and recent
versions of FreeBSD, OpenBSD and NetBSD have such kernel drivers available.
.PP
By default 8 Megabytes
of system memory are used for graphics.  For the 830M and later, the
default is 8 Megabytes when DRI is not enabled and 32 Megabytes with
DRI is enabled.  This amount may be changed with the
.B VideoRam
entry in the config file
.B "Device"
section.  It may be set to any reasonable value up to 64MB for older
chipsets or 128MB for newer chipsets.  It is advisable to check the
__xservername__
log file to check if any features have been disabled because of insufficient
video memory.  In particular, DRI support or tiling mode may be disabled
with insufficient video memory.  Either of these being disabled will
reduce performance for 3D applications.  Note however, that increasing
this value too much will reduce the amount of system memory available
for other applications.
.PP
The driver makes use of the video BIOS to program video modes for the 830M
and later.  This limits the video modes that can be used to those provided
by the video BIOS, and to those that will fit into the amount of video memory
that the video BIOS is aware of.
.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported
.TP
.BI "Option \*qNoAccel\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable acceleration.  Default: acceleration is enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qSWCursor\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable software cursor.  Default: software cursor is disable
and a hardware cursor is used for configurations where the hardware cursor
is available.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qColorKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
This sets the default pixel value for the YUV video overlay key.
Default: undefined.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qCacheLines\*q \*q" integer \*q
This allows the user to change the amount of graphics memory used for
2D acceleration and video.  Decreasing this amount leaves more for 3D
textures.  Increasing it can improve 2D performance at the expense of
3D performance.
.TP
This option only takes effect when XAA acceleration is enabled.
.TP
Default: depends on the resolution, depth, and available video memory.  The
driver attempts to allocate space for at 3 screenfuls of pixmaps plus an
HD-sized XV video.  The default used for a specific configuration can be found
by examining the __xservername__ log file.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDRI\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable DRI support.
Default: DRI is enabled for configurations where it is supported.

.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported for the i810 and i815 chipsets:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDDC\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable DDC support.
Default: enabled.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qDac6Bit\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable 6-bits per RGB for 8-bit modes.
Default: 8-bits per RGB for 8-bit modes.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qXvMCSurfaces\*q \*q" integer \*q
This option enables XvMC.  The integer parameter specifies the number of
surfaces to use.  Valid values are 6 and 7.
Default: XvMC is disabled.

.PP
The following driver
.B Options
are supported for the 830M and later chipsets:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qVideoKey\*q \*q" integer \*q
This is the same as the
.B \*qColorKey\*q
option described above.  It is provided for compatibility with most
other drivers.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qXVideo\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Disable or enable XVideo support.
Default: XVideo is enabled for configurations where it is supported.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*q90\*q"
Rotate the desktop 90 degrees counterclockwise. Other valid options are
0, 90, 180 and 270 degrees. The RandR extension is used for rotation 
functionality. So this option allows the Xserver to start with a rotated
mode of operation.
Default: 0 degrees.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qLinearAlloc\*q \*q" integer \*q
Allows more memory for the offscreen allocator. This usually helps in
situations where HDTV movies are required to play but not enough offscreen
memory is usually available. Set this to 8160 for upto 1920x1080 HDTV support.
Default 0KB (off).
.TP
.BI "Option \*qLegacy3D\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable support for the legacy i915_dri.so 3D driver.
This will, among other things, make the 2D driver tell libGL to
load the 3D driver i915_dri.so instead of the newer i915tex_dri.so.
This option is only used for chipsets in the range i830-i945. 
Default for i830-i945 series: Enabled for i915 drm versions < 1.7.0. Otherwise
disabled. 
Default for i810: The option is not used.
Default for i965: The option is always true.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qAperTexSize\*q \*q" integer \*q
Give the size in kiB of the AGP aperture area that is reserved for the
DRM memory manager present in i915 drm from version 1.7.0 and upwards,
and that is used with the 3D driver in Mesa from version 6.5.2 and
upwards. If the size is set too high to make room for pre-allocated
VideoRam, the driver will try to reduce it automatically. If you use only
older Mesa or DRM versions, you may set this value to zero, and
atctivate the legacy texture pool (see 
.B "Option \*qLegacy3D\*q"
). If you run 3D programs with large texture memory requirements, you might
gain some performance by increasing this value.
Default: 32768.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qAccelMethod\*q \*q" string \*q
Choose acceleration architecture, either "XAA" or "EXA".  XAA is the old
(but stable) XFree86 based acceleration architecture.  EXA is a newer and
simpler acceleration architecture designed to better accelerate the X Render
extension.  Default: "XAA".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), xorgconfig(__appmansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__), X(__miscmansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Keith Whitwell, and also Jonathan Bian, Matthew J Sottek,
Jeff Hartmann, Mark Vojkovich, Alan Hourihane, H. J. Lu.  830M and 845G
support reworked for XFree86 4.3 by David Dawes and Keith Whitwell.  852GM,
855GM, and 865G support added by David Dawes and Keith Whitwell.  915G,
915GM, 945G, 945GM, 965G, 965Q and 946GZ support added by Alan Hourihane and
Keith Whitwell.  Dual Head, Clone and lid status support added by Alan
Hourihane. Textured video support for 915G and later chips added by Keith
Packard and Eric Anholt.
